hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about
array and pointers
So as we know an array is a collection of variables of the same
data type. In C programming language
Array and pointers are more or less the same.
See an example
We have an integer array arr with five elements 10
20 30 40 and 50
Here the name of the array which is
arr will point to the first element in the array 10.
Hence arr will have the address of arr[0]
so arr equal to &arr[0]
also arr+1 points
to the second element and arr+2 points to third
element and arr+3 points to the forth element
and finally arr+4 points to the fifth
element
Now let us print the address of each element in
the array.
So consider the programme. First
We are creating the array arr with elements 10 20 30
40 and 50
Now we declare an integer variable i.
Now in a for loop we are printing the address of
each element in the array. In the first iteration i equal to 0
and i is less than five so we print &arr[0]
equal to arr+0 and we get
1024. here we are using %p format specifier which
is used to print the pointer address
Now we increment i. So it becomes 1. Now
in the second iteration we print &arr[1]
equal to arr+1 and we get
1028. Now we increment i and it becomes 2.
now in the third iteration we print &arr[2]
to equal to arr+2 and we get 1032
and we increment i.
So it becomes 3. Now in the fourth iteration we
print &arr[3] equal to
arr+3 and we get 1036 and i will
be incremented. Now in the fifth iteration i is equal to 4 and
i is less than five. So we print &arr[4]
equal to arr+4 and we get 1040.
And now we increment i and it becomes five. Now in the
sixth iteration the condition is failed since i equal to 5
which is not less than five
So control comes out of the for loop.
Now let us see how to print the values.
arr[i] is exactly same as writing *(arr+i)
that is value stored at address arr+i. So
first element can be accessed using *(arr+0)
Similarly second element using *(arr+1)
third element using *(arr+2) fourth
element using *(arr+3) and fifth Element using
*(arr+4)
So consider this programme, first
we create the array with elements 10 20 30 40 and 50.
And now we declare i. Now in a for
loop, we are printing *(arr+i) for
i equal to 0 to 4. So in the first iteration we get
arr[0] equal to 10
In the second iteration we are getting arr[1]
equal to 20 and in the third iteration we get
arr[2] equal to 30
In the fourth iteration we get arr[3] equal
to 40 and in the fifth iteration we get
arr[4] equal to 50 and in the six iteration
condition fails and control comes out of the for loop.
so we can understand that arrays are pretty much
similar to pointers. So that's all and thank you for watching this video.